doc/man-sections/protocol-options.rst, before:

Protocol options
----------------
Options in this section affect features available in the OpenVPN wire
protocol.  Many of these options also define the encryption options
of the data channel in the OpenVPN wire protocol.  These options must be
configured in a compatible way between both the local and remote side.

--allow-compression mode
  As described in the ``--compress`` option, compression is a potentially
  dangerous option.  This option allows controlling the behaviour of
  OpenVPN when compression is used and allowed.

  Valid syntaxes:
  ::

      allow-compression
      allow-compression mode

  The ``mode`` argument can be one of the following values:

  :code:`asym`
      OpenVPN will only *decompress downlink packets* but *not compress
      uplink packets*.  This also allows migrating to disable compression
      when changing both server and client configurations to remove
      compression at the same time is not a feasible option.

  :code:`no`  (default)
      OpenVPN will refuse any non-stub compression.

  :code:`yes`
      OpenVPN will send and receive compressed packets.

--auth alg
  Authenticate data channel packets and (if enabled) ``tls-auth`` control
  channel packets with HMAC using message digest algorithm ``alg``. (The
  default is ``SHA1`` ). HMAC is a commonly used message authentication
  algorithm (MAC) that uses a data string, a secure hash algorithm and a
  key to produce a digital signature.

  The OpenVPN data channel protocol uses encrypt-then-mac (i.e. first
  encrypt a packet then HMAC the resulting ciphertext), which prevents
  padding oracle attacks.

  If an AEAD cipher mode (e.g. GCM) is chosen then the specified ``--auth``
  algorithm is ignored for the data channel and the authentication method
  of the AEAD cipher is used instead. Note that ``alg`` still specifies
  the digest used for ``tls-auth``.

  In static-key encryption mode, the HMAC key is included in the key file
  generated by ``--genkey``. In TLS mode, the HMAC key is dynamically
  generated and shared between peers via the TLS control channel. If
  OpenVPN receives a packet with a bad HMAC it will drop the packet. HMAC
  usually adds 16 or 20 bytes per packet. Set ``alg=none`` to disable
  authentication.

  For more information on HMAC see
  http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/users/mihir/papers/hmac.html

--cipher alg
  This option should not be used any longer in TLS mode and still
  exists for two reasons:

  * compatibility with old configurations still carrying it
    around;

  * allow users connecting to OpenVPN peers older than 2.6.0
    to have ``--cipher`` configured the same way as the remote
    counterpart. This can avoid MTU/frame size warnings.

  Before 2.4.0, this option was used to select the cipher to be
  configured on the data channel, however, later versions usually
  ignored this directive in favour of a negotiated cipher.
  Starting with 2.6.0, this option is always ignored in TLS mode
  when it comes to configuring the cipher and will only control the
  cipher for ``--secret`` pre-shared-key mode (note: this mode is
  deprecated strictly not recommended).

  If you wish to specify the cipher to use on the data channel,
  please see ``--data-ciphers`` (for regular negotiation) and
  ``--data-ciphers-fallback`` (for a fallback option when the
  negotiation cannot take place because the other peer is old or
  has negotiation disabled).

  To see ciphers that are available with OpenVPN, use the
  ``--show-ciphers`` option.

  Set ``alg`` to :code:`none` to disable encryption.

--compress algorithm
  **DEPRECATED** Enable a compression algorithm.  Compression is generally
  not recommended.  VPN tunnels which use compression are susceptible to
  the VORALCE attack vector. See also the :code:`migrate` parameter below.

  The ``algorithm`` parameter may be :code:`lzo`, :code:`lz4`,
  :code:`lz4-v2`, :code:`stub`, :code:`stub-v2`, :code:`migrate` or empty.
  LZO and LZ4 are different compression algorithms, with LZ4 generally
  offering the best performance with least CPU usage.

  The :code:`lz4-v2` and :code:`stub-v2` variants implement a better
  framing that does not add overhead when packets cannot be compressed. All
  other variants always add one extra framing byte compared to no
  compression framing.

  Especially :code:`stub-v2` is essentially identical to no compression and
  no compression framing as its header indicates IP version 5 in a tun setup
  and can (ab)used to complete disable compression to clients. (See the
  :code:`migrate` option below)

  If the ``algorithm`` parameter is :code:`stub`, :code:`stub-v2` or empty,
  compression will be turned off, but the packet framing for compression
  will still be enabled, allowing a different setting to be pushed later.
  Additionally, :code:`stub` and :code:`stub-v2` wil disable announcing
  ``lzo`` and ``lz4`` compression support via *IV_* variables to the
  server.

  Note: the :code:`stub` (or empty) option is NOT compatible with the older
  option ``--comp-lzo no``.

  Using :code:`migrate` as compression algorithm enables a special migration mode.
  It allows migration away from the ``--compress``/``--comp-lzo`` options to no compression.
  This option sets the server to no compression mode and the server behaves identical to
  a server without a compression option for all clients without a compression in their
  config. However, if a client is detected that indicates that compression is used (via OCC),
  the server will automatically add ``--push compress stub-v2`` to the client specific
  configuration if supported by the client and otherwise switch to ``comp-lzo no``
  and add ``--push comp-lzo`` to the client specific configuration.

  ***Security Considerations***

  Compression and encryption is a tricky combination. If an attacker knows
  or is able to control (parts of) the plain-text of packets that contain
  secrets, the attacker might be able to extract the secret if compression
  is enabled. See e.g. the *CRIME* and *BREACH* attacks on TLS and
  *VORACLE* on VPNs which also leverage to break encryption. If you are not
  entirely sure that the above does not apply to your traffic, you are
  advised to *not* enable compression.

--comp-lzo mode
  **DEPRECATED** Enable LZO compression algorithm.  Compression is
  generally not recommended.  VPN tunnels which uses compression are
  suspectible to the VORALCE attack vector.

  Use LZO compression -- may add up to 1 byte per packet for incompressible
  data. ``mode`` may be :code:`yes`, :code:`no`, or :code:`adaptive`
  (default).

  In a server mode setup, it is possible to selectively turn compression
  on or off for individual clients.

  First, make sure the client-side config file enables selective
  compression by having at least one ``--comp-lzo`` directive, such as
  ``--comp-lzo no``. This will turn off compression by default, but allow
  a future directive push from the server to dynamically change the
  :code:`on`/:code:`off`/:code:`adaptive` setting.

  Next in a ``--client-config-dir`` file, specify the compression setting
  for the client, for example:
  ::

    comp-lzo yes
    push "comp-lzo yes"

  The first line sets the ``comp-lzo`` setting for the server side of the
  link, the second sets the client side.

--comp-noadapt
  **DEPRECATED** When used in conjunction with ``--comp-lzo``, this option
  will disable OpenVPN's adaptive compression algorithm. Normally, adaptive
  compression is enabled with ``--comp-lzo``.

  Adaptive compression tries to optimize the case where you have
  compression enabled, but you are sending predominantly incompressible
  (or pre-compressed) packets over the tunnel, such as an FTP or rsync
  transfer of a large, compressed file. With adaptive compression, OpenVPN
  will periodically sample the compression process to measure its
  efficiency. If the data being sent over the tunnel is already
  compressed, the compression efficiency will be very low, triggering
  openvpn to disable compression for a period of time until the next
  re-sample test.

--key-direction
  Alternative way of specifying the optional direction parameter for the
  ``--tls-auth`` and ``--secret`` options. Useful when using inline files
  (See section on inline files).

--data-ciphers cipher-list
  Restrict the allowed ciphers to be negotiated to the ciphers in
  ``cipher-list``. ``cipher-list`` is a colon-separated list of ciphers,
  and defaults to :code:`AES-256-GCM:AES-128-GCM:CHACHA20-POLY1305` when
  Chacha20-Poly1305 is available and otherwise :code:`AES-256-GCM:AES-128-GCM`.

  For servers, the first cipher from ``cipher-list`` that is also
  supported by the client will be pushed to clients that support cipher
  negotiation.

  Starting with OpenVPN 2.6 a cipher can be prefixed with a :code:`?` to mark
  it as optional. This allows including ciphers in the list that may not be
  available on all platforms.
  E.g. :code:`AES-256-GCM:AES-128-GCM:?CHACHA20-POLY1305` would only enable
  Chacha20-Poly1305 if the underlying SSL library (and its configuration)
  supports it.

  Cipher negotiation is enabled in client-server mode only. I.e. if
  ``--mode`` is set to 'server' (server-side, implied by setting
  ``--server`` ), or if ``--pull`` is specified (client-side, implied by
  setting --client).

  If no common cipher is found during cipher negotiation, the connection
  is terminated. To support old clients/old servers that do not provide any
  cipher negotiation support see ``--data-ciphers-fallback``.

  Additionally, to allow for more smooth transition, if NCP is enabled,
  OpenVPN will inherit the cipher of the peer if that cipher is different
  from the local ``--cipher`` setting, but the peer cipher is one of the
  ciphers specified in ``--data-ciphers``. E.g. a non-NCP client (<=v2.3,
  or with --ncp-disabled set) connecting to a NCP server (v2.4+) with
  ``--cipher BF-CBC`` and ``--data-ciphers AES-256-GCM:AES-256-CBC`` set can
  either specify ``--cipher BF-CBC`` or ``--cipher AES-256-CBC`` and both
  will work.

  Note for using NCP with an OpenVPN 2.4 peer: This list must include the
  :code:`AES-256-GCM` and :code:`AES-128-GCM` ciphers.

  This list is restricted to be 127 chars long after conversion to OpenVPN
  ciphers.

  This option was called ``--ncp-ciphers`` in OpenVPN 2.4 but has been renamed
  to ``--data-ciphers`` in OpenVPN 2.5 to more accurately reflect its meaning.

--data-ciphers-fallback alg

    Configure a cipher that is used to fall back to if we could not determine
    which cipher the peer is willing to use.

    This option should only be needed to
    connect to peers that are running OpenVPN 2.3 and older version, and
    have been configured with `--enable-small`
    (typically used on routers or other embedded devices).

--secret args
  **DEPRECATED** Enable Static Key encryption mode (non-TLS). Use pre-shared secret
  ``file`` which was generated with ``--genkey``.

  Valid syntaxes:
  ::

     secret file
     secret file direction

  The optional ``direction`` parameter enables the use of 4 distinct keys
  (HMAC-send, cipher-encrypt, HMAC-receive, cipher-decrypt), so that each
  data flow direction has a different set of HMAC and cipher keys. This
  has a number of desirable security properties including eliminating
  certain kinds of DoS and message replay attacks.

  When the ``direction`` parameter is omitted, 2 keys are used
  bidirectionally, one for HMAC and the other for encryption/decryption.

  The ``direction`` parameter should always be complementary on either
  side of the connection, i.e. one side should use :code:`0` and the other
  should use :code:`1`, or both sides should omit it altogether.

  The ``direction`` parameter requires that ``file`` contains a 2048 bit
  key. While pre-1.5 versions of OpenVPN generate 1024 bit key files, any
  version of OpenVPN which supports the ``direction`` parameter, will also
  support 2048 bit key file generation using the ``--genkey`` option.

  Static key encryption mode has certain advantages, the primary being
  ease of configuration.

  There are no certificates or certificate authorities or complicated
  negotiation handshakes and protocols. The only requirement is that you
  have a pre-existing secure channel with your peer (such as ``ssh``) to
  initially copy the key. This requirement, along with the fact that your
  key never changes unless you manually generate a new one, makes it
  somewhat less secure than TLS mode (see below). If an attacker manages
  to steal your key, everything that was ever encrypted with it is
  compromised. Contrast that to the perfect forward secrecy features of
  TLS mode (using Diffie Hellman key exchange), where even if an attacker
  was able to steal your private key, he would gain no information to help
  him decrypt past sessions.

  Another advantageous aspect of Static Key encryption mode is that it is
  a handshake-free protocol without any distinguishing signature or
  feature (such as a header or protocol handshake sequence) that would
  mark the ciphertext packets as being generated by OpenVPN. Anyone
  eavesdropping on the wire would see nothing but random-looking data.

--tran-window n
  Transition window -- our old key can live this many seconds after a new
  a key renegotiation begins (default :code:`3600` seconds). This feature
  allows for a graceful transition from old to new key, and removes the key
  renegotiation sequence from the critical path of tunnel data forwarding.

Commit message:

2.6.0~git20221116-1 (patches unapplied)
Imported using git-ubuntu import.

doc/man-sections/protocol-options.rst, after:

Protocol options
----------------
Options in this section affect features available in the OpenVPN wire
protocol.  Many of these options also define the encryption options
of the data channel in the OpenVPN wire protocol.  These options must be
configured in a compatible way between both the local and remote side.

--allow-compression mode
  As described in the ``--compress`` option, compression is a potentially
  dangerous option.  This option allows controlling the behaviour of
  OpenVPN when compression is used and allowed.

  Valid syntaxes:
  ::

      allow-compression
      allow-compression mode

  The ``mode`` argument can be one of the following values:

  :code:`asym`
      OpenVPN will only *decompress downlink packets* but *not compress
      uplink packets*.  This also allows migrating to disable compression
      when changing both server and client configurations to remove
      compression at the same time is not a feasible option.

  :code:`no`  (default)
      OpenVPN will refuse any non-stub compression.

  :code:`yes`
      OpenVPN will send and receive compressed packets.

--auth alg
  Authenticate data channel packets and (if enabled) ``tls-auth`` control
  channel packets with HMAC using message digest algorithm ``alg``. (The
  default is ``SHA1`` ). HMAC is a commonly used message authentication
  algorithm (MAC) that uses a data string, a secure hash algorithm and a
  key to produce a digital signature.

  The OpenVPN data channel protocol uses encrypt-then-mac (i.e. first
  encrypt a packet then HMAC the resulting ciphertext), which prevents
  padding oracle attacks.

  If an AEAD cipher mode (e.g. GCM) is chosen then the specified ``--auth``
  algorithm is ignored for the data channel and the authentication method
  of the AEAD cipher is used instead. Note that ``alg`` still specifies
  the digest used for ``tls-auth``.

  In static-key encryption mode, the HMAC key is included in the key file
  generated by ``--genkey``. In TLS mode, the HMAC key is dynamically
  generated and shared between peers via the TLS control channel. If
  OpenVPN receives a packet with a bad HMAC it will drop the packet. HMAC
  usually adds 16 or 20 bytes per packet. Set ``alg=none`` to disable
  authentication.

  For more information on HMAC see
  http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/users/mihir/papers/hmac.html

--cipher alg
  This option should not be used any longer in TLS mode and still
  exists for two reasons:

  * compatibility with old configurations still carrying it
    around;

  * allow users connecting to OpenVPN peers older than 2.6.0
    to have ``--cipher`` configured the same way as the remote
    counterpart. This can avoid MTU/frame size warnings.

  Before 2.4.0, this option was used to select the cipher to be
  configured on the data channel, however, later versions usually
  ignored this directive in favour of a negotiated cipher.
  Starting with 2.6.0, this option is always ignored in TLS mode
  when it comes to configuring the cipher and will only control the
  cipher for ``--secret`` pre-shared-key mode (note: this mode is
  deprecated and strictly not recommended).

  If you wish to specify the cipher to use on the data channel,
  please see ``--data-ciphers`` (for regular negotiation) and
  ``--data-ciphers-fallback`` (for a fallback option when the
  negotiation cannot take place because the other peer is old or
  has negotiation disabled).

  To see ciphers that are available with OpenVPN, use the
  ``--show-ciphers`` option.

  Set ``alg`` to :code:`none` to disable encryption.

--compress algorithm
  **DEPRECATED** Enable a compression algorithm. Compression is generally
  not recommended. VPN tunnels which use compression are susceptible to
  the VORALCE attack vector. See also the :code:`migrate` parameter below.

  The ``algorithm`` parameter may be :code:`lzo`, :code:`lz4`,
  :code:`lz4-v2`, :code:`stub`, :code:`stub-v2`, :code:`migrate` or empty.
  LZO and LZ4 are different compression algorithms, with LZ4 generally
  offering the best performance with least CPU usage.

  The :code:`lz4-v2` and :code:`stub-v2` variants implement a better
  framing that does not add overhead when packets cannot be compressed. All
  other variants always add one extra framing byte compared to no
  compression framing.

  Especially :code:`stub-v2` is essentially identical to no compression and
  no compression framing as its header indicates IP version 5 in a tun setup
  and can (ab)used to complete disable compression to clients. (See the
  :code:`migrate` option below)

  If the ``algorithm`` parameter is :code:`stub`, :code:`stub-v2` or empty,
  compression will be turned off, but the packet framing for compression
  will still be enabled, allowing a different setting to be pushed later.
  Additionally, :code:`stub` and :code:`stub-v2` wil disable announcing
  ``lzo`` and ``lz4`` compression support via *IV_* variables to the
  server.

  Note: the :code:`stub` (or empty) option is NOT compatible with the older
  option ``--comp-lzo no``.

  Using :code:`migrate` as compression algorithm enables a special migration mode.
  It allows migration away from the ``--compress``/``--comp-lzo`` options to no compression.
  This option sets the server to no compression mode and the server behaves identical to
  a server without a compression option for all clients without a compression in their
  config. However, if a client is detected that indicates that compression is used (via OCC),
  the server will automatically add ``--push compress stub-v2`` to the client specific
  configuration if supported by the client and otherwise switch to ``comp-lzo no``
  and add ``--push comp-lzo`` to the client specific configuration.

  ***Security Considerations***

  Compression and encryption is a tricky combination. If an attacker knows
  or is able to control (parts of) the plain-text of packets that contain
  secrets, the attacker might be able to extract the secret if compression
  is enabled. See e.g. the *CRIME* and *BREACH* attacks on TLS and
  *VORACLE* on VPNs which also leverage to break encryption. If you are not
  entirely sure that the above does not apply to your traffic, you are
  advised to *not* enable compression.

--comp-lzo mode
  **DEPRECATED** Enable LZO compression algorithm.  Compression is
  generally not recommended.  VPN tunnels which uses compression are
  suspectible to the VORALCE attack vector.

  Use LZO compression -- may add up to 1 byte per packet for incompressible
  data. ``mode`` may be :code:`yes`, :code:`no`, or :code:`adaptive`
  (default).

  In a server mode setup, it is possible to selectively turn compression
  on or off for individual clients.

  First, make sure the client-side config file enables selective
  compression by having at least one ``--comp-lzo`` directive, such as
  ``--comp-lzo no``. This will turn off compression by default, but allow
  a future directive push from the server to dynamically change the
  :code:`on`/:code:`off`/:code:`adaptive` setting.

  Next in a ``--client-config-dir`` file, specify the compression setting
  for the client, for example:
  ::

    comp-lzo yes
    push "comp-lzo yes"

  The first line sets the ``comp-lzo`` setting for the server side of the
  link, the second sets the client side.

--comp-noadapt
  **DEPRECATED** When used in conjunction with ``--comp-lzo``, this option
  will disable OpenVPN's adaptive compression algorithm. Normally, adaptive
  compression is enabled with ``--comp-lzo``.

  Adaptive compression tries to optimize the case where you have
  compression enabled, but you are sending predominantly incompressible
  (or pre-compressed) packets over the tunnel, such as an FTP or rsync
  transfer of a large, compressed file. With adaptive compression, OpenVPN
  will periodically sample the compression process to measure its
  efficiency. If the data being sent over the tunnel is already
  compressed, the compression efficiency will be very low, triggering
  openvpn to disable compression for a period of time until the next
  re-sample test.

--key-direction
  Alternative way of specifying the optional direction parameter for the
  ``--tls-auth`` and ``--secret`` options. Useful when using inline files
  (See section on inline files).

--data-ciphers cipher-list
  Restrict the allowed ciphers to be negotiated to the ciphers in
  ``cipher-list``. ``cipher-list`` is a colon-separated list of ciphers,
  and defaults to :code:`AES-256-GCM:AES-128-GCM:CHACHA20-POLY1305` when
  Chacha20-Poly1305 is available and otherwise :code:`AES-256-GCM:AES-128-GCM`.

  For servers, the first cipher from ``cipher-list`` that is also
  supported by the client will be pushed to clients that support cipher
  negotiation.

  For more details see the chapter on `Data channel cipher negotiation`_.
  *Especially* if you need to support clients with OpenVPN versions older
  than 2.4!

  Starting with OpenVPN 2.6 a cipher can be prefixed with a :code:`?` to mark
  it as optional. This allows including ciphers in the list that may not be
  available on all platforms.
  E.g. :code:`AES-256-GCM:AES-128-GCM:?CHACHA20-POLY1305` would only enable
  Chacha20-Poly1305 if the underlying SSL library (and its configuration)
  supports it.

  Cipher negotiation is enabled in client-server mode only. I.e. if
  ``--mode`` is set to `server` (server-side, implied by setting
  ``--server`` ), or if ``--pull`` is specified (client-side, implied by
  setting ``--client``).

  If no common cipher is found during cipher negotiation, the connection
  is terminated. To support old clients/old servers that do not provide any
  cipher negotiation support see ``--data-ciphers-fallback``.

  If ``--compat-mode`` is set to a version older than 2.5.0 the cipher
  specified by ``--cipher`` will be appended to ``--data-ciphers`` if
  not already present.

  This list is restricted to be 127 chars long after conversion to OpenVPN
  ciphers.

  This option was called ``--ncp-ciphers`` in OpenVPN 2.4 but has been renamed
  to ``--data-ciphers`` in OpenVPN 2.5 to more accurately reflect its meaning.

--data-ciphers-fallback alg
  Configure a cipher that is used to fall back to if we could not determine
  which cipher the peer is willing to use.

  This option should only be needed to
  connect to peers that are running OpenVPN 2.3 or older versions, and
  have been configured with ``--enable-small``
  (typically used on routers or other embedded devices).

--secret args
  **DEPRECATED** Enable Static Key encryption mode (non-TLS). Use pre-shared secret
  ``file`` which was generated with ``--genkey``.

  Valid syntaxes:
  ::

     secret file
     secret file direction

  The optional ``direction`` parameter enables the use of 4 distinct keys
  (HMAC-send, cipher-encrypt, HMAC-receive, cipher-decrypt), so that each
  data flow direction has a different set of HMAC and cipher keys. This
  has a number of desirable security properties including eliminating
  certain kinds of DoS and message replay attacks.

  When the ``direction`` parameter is omitted, 2 keys are used
  bidirectionally, one for HMAC and the other for encryption/decryption.

  The ``direction`` parameter should always be complementary on either
  side of the connection, i.e. one side should use :code:`0` and the other
  should use :code:`1`, or both sides should omit it altogether.

  The ``direction`` parameter requires that ``file`` contains a 2048 bit
  key. While pre-1.5 versions of OpenVPN generate 1024 bit key files, any
  version of OpenVPN which supports the ``direction`` parameter, will also
  support 2048 bit key file generation using the ``--genkey`` option.

  Static key encryption mode has certain advantages, the primary being
  ease of configuration.

  There are no certificates or certificate authorities or complicated
  negotiation handshakes and protocols. The only requirement is that you
  have a pre-existing secure channel with your peer (such as ``ssh``) to
  initially copy the key. This requirement, along with the fact that your
  key never changes unless you manually generate a new one, makes it
  somewhat less secure than TLS mode (see below). If an attacker manages
  to steal your key, everything that was ever encrypted with it is
  compromised. Contrast that to the perfect forward secrecy features of
  TLS mode (using Diffie Hellman key exchange), where even if an attacker
  was able to steal your private key, he would gain no information to help
  him decrypt past sessions.

  Another advantageous aspect of Static Key encryption mode is that it is
  a handshake-free protocol without any distinguishing signature or
  feature (such as a header or protocol handshake sequence) that would
  mark the ciphertext packets as being generated by OpenVPN. Anyone
  eavesdropping on the wire would see nothing but random-looking data.

--tran-window n
  Transition window -- our old key can live this many seconds after a new
  a key renegotiation begins (default :code:`3600` seconds). This feature
  allows for a graceful transition from old to new key, and removes the key
  renegotiation sequence from the critical path of tunnel data forwarding.
